doc: Microsoft Entra ID OIDC API permissions (#6431)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/user-management/saml-sso/palette-sso-with-entra-id.md

### Configure Microsoft Entra ID with Palette

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com) as a **Tenant Admin**.

> 2. Navigate to the left main menu and select **Tenant Settings**. From the **Tenant Menu**, select **SSO**, then
>    **Configure**, and lastly, click on the **OIDC** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Navigate to the left main menu and select **Tenant Settings**. From the **Tenant Menu**, select **SSO**, and on the **Configure** tab, choose **OIDC**.
```
It defaults to the **Configure** tab, so no need to click it. (But we probably should still mention it just in case... I was about to suggest my brackets, but I was deprived.

> 3. Copy the **Callback URL** to your clipboard. This URL will be used in step 13 to configure the Microsoft Entra ID app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Copy the **Callback URL** to your clipboard. This URL will be used in step 14 to configure the Microsoft Entra ID app
```
I think?

Author: Ah, I knew I would miss one of these after adding new steps. Thanks!

   registration.

4. In a separate browser tab, log in to the Microsoft Entra ID Admin console and open the
   [App registration blade](https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_AAD_RegisteredApps/ApplicationsListBlade).

5. Click on **New registration** and assign a name to the new registration. In this guide, the example app registration

>    is named _palette-oidc_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   is named `palette-oidc`.
```
Would monospace be more appropriate here? When I provide a name for something, I treat it like a permission or file name, but I don't think we have a hard rule on this? Just food for thought.

Author: Yeah, I purposefully left it as is, but I think you can make a case for either.

6. Click **Register**.

> 7. From the app overview page, navigate to the left main menu and select **Certificates & secrets**. In the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. From the app overview page, navigate to the left main menu and select **Certificates & secrets**. On the following
```

   screen, click on **New client secret**.

8. Add a description for the secret and select an expiration period. Click on **Add** to create the secret.

   :::warning

   We recommend you store the secret value in a secure location, such as a password manager. You will need this value
   later when you configure Palette.

   :::

9. From the application overview page, navigate to the left main menu and select **Token configuration**.

> 10. Select the **Add optional claim** button. Choose **Token type** as **ID**, and add the claims **email** and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. Select the **Add optional claim** button. Choose **Token type** as the **ID**, and add the claims **email** and
```

    ![Add a claim button](/oidc-entra-id-images/user-management_saml-sso_palette-sso-with-entra-id-twooptionalclaims.webp)

11. In addition to allowing individual user authentication, Palette provides group claim functionality, allowing an OIDC
    identity provider, like Microsoft Entra ID, to identify the user's Entra ID group membership within Palette.

    To enable group membership, select the **Add groups claim** button. Then select **Security groups** and **Group ID**
    for each property:

    - **ID**
    - **Access**
    - **SAML**

    When completed, the **Token Configuration** page will look similar to the image below.

    ![A view of the token configuration screen](/oidc-entra-id-images/user-management_saml-sso_palette-sso-with-entra-id-token-configuration.webp)

> 12. From the application overview page, navigate to the left main menu and select **Authentication**.

Author: In this context, I will leave it as is because this page isn't titled as the Application Overview (but more of a generic description).

13. Under **Platform configurations**, click **Add a platform** and select **Web** on the **Configure platforms**
    window.

> 14. Paste the _Palette Callback URL_ value obtained in step 3 into the **Redirect URIs** field, and click **Configure**.

Author: ```suggestion
14. Paste the **Callback URL** value obtained in step 3 into the **Redirect URIs** field, and click **Configure**.
```

    <details>

    <summary>Additional Redirect URLs</summary>

    You can also add additional redirect URLs if needed. For example, to enable integration with the Kubernetes
    Dashboard, add the following **Single-page application** redirect URIs to the app registration.

    | URL                                              | Type of Access                                                  |
    | ------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------- |

>     | `http://localhost:8000`                          | Using `kubectl` with the `kube-login` plugin from a workstation |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | `http://localhost:8000`                          | Use `kubectl` with the `kube-login` plugin from a workstation |
```
To keep it parallel with the following row.

    | `https://<fqdn_of_k8s_dashboard>/oauth/callback` | Use OIDC to authenticate and log in to the Kubernetes Dashboard |

    </details>

> 15. From the application overview page, navigate to the left main menu and select the **Overview** tab. From the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
15. From the **Application Overview** page, navigate to the left main menu and select the **Overview** tab. From the
```
Same Application Overview conundrum. Feel free to ignore if it's not applicable or you don't agree.

    **Overview** selection, save the following fields for the next steps you will complete in Palette.

    | Field                       | Description                                                                                                |
    | --------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
    | **Application (client) ID** | The Application ID is also known as the client ID. This is a unique identifier for your Azure application. |
    | **Object ID**               | The Object ID is the unique identifier for the application in Azure AD.                                    |
    | **Directory (tenant) ID**   | The Directory ID is the unique identifier for your Azure AD tenant.                                        |
    | **Secret Value**            | The Secret Value is the value of the client secret you created in the previous steps.                      |

> 16. From the application overview page, navigate to the left main menu and select **API permissions**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
16. From the **Application Overview** page, navigate to the left main menu and select **API permissions**.
```
Same gist. Feel free to ignore if N/A.

17. Click **Add a permission** and select **Microsoft Graph** from the **Request API permissions** window.

18. Select the following permissions for the app.

    | **Type**  | **Category**       | **Permission** | **Admin consent required** |
    | --------- | ------------------ | -------------- | -------------------------- |
    | Delegated | OpenId permissions | `email`        | No                         |
    | Delegated | OpenId permissions | `profile`      | No                         |
    | Delegated | User               | `User.Read`    | No                         |

    :::info

    Palette does not need to look up or list groups in Azure as it uses the group’s Object ID to map to a team name in
    Palette. The group's Object ID is obtained from the claims within the OIDC token.

    :::

19. Click **Add permissions** after selecting the permissions.

20. Navigate to the
    [Microsoft Entra ID Groups page](https://entra.microsoft.com/#view/Microsoft_AAD_IAM/GroupsManagementMenuBlade/~/AllGroups/menuId/AllGroups).

> 21. Find the groups that you want to add to Palette and record each group's name and **Object ID**. You will use this

Author: In this case, it is **Name** so you are correct to suggest this 😄

    | `3f33c3a5-e0af-4ef6-9671-c7545fe264f3` | No role assigned | `k8s_cluster_admins`             |
    | `c4606295-e8b0-4df0-891b-de4428d7e54f` | No role assigned | `k8s_cluster-editor`             |

> 26. Navigate to left main menu, select **Tenant Settings**. Next, click on **SSO** and select the **OIDC** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
26. Navigate to left main menu and select **Tenant Settings**. Next, click on **SSO** and select the **OIDC** tab.
```
You can also refer back to step 2, as this is the same step.

    | Field             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
    | ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

>     | **Issuer URL**    | Refer to the [Find your app's OpenID configuration document URI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/v2-protocols-oidc#find-your-apps-openid-configuration-document-uri) guide to learn how to determine your issuer URL. This will often be the same as the **Authority URL** and will not contain the Well-known configuration document path appended. If you are using Entra v2 tokens with the endpoint `https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant-ID}/v2.0`, ensure you added the claims `family_name` and `given_name` to the token configuration. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | **Issuer URL**    | Refer to the [Find your app's OpenID configuration document URI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/v2-protocols-oidc#find-your-apps-openid-configuration-document-uri) guide to learn how to determine your issuer URL. This will often be the same as the **Authority URL** and will not contain the **Well-known configuration** document path appended. If you are using Entra v2 tokens with the endpoint `https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant-ID}/v2.0`, ensure you added the claims `family_name` and `given_name` to the token configuration. |
```
I don't know if bold is correct, but it feels like there is some sort of formatting missing here.

>     | **Client ID**     | The application ID from Entra ID                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
>     | **Client Secret** | The application secret you created                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | **Client ID**     | The application ID from Entra ID.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
    | **Client Secret** | The application secret you created.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
```

>     | **Default Teams** | Leave it blank if you don't want users without group claims to be assigned to a default group. If you do, enter the desired default group name. If you use this option, be careful with how much access you assign to the group                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | **Default Teams** | Leave blank if you do not want users without group claims to be assigned to a default group; otherwise, enter the desired default group name. If you use this option, be careful with how much access you assign to the group.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
```

    | **Scopes**        | Add `openid`, `profile` and `email`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

>     | **Email**         | Use `email` as the default value                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | **Email**         | Use `email` as the default value.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
```

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com) as a **Tenant Admin**.

2. Navigate to the left main menu and select **Profiles**.

> 3. Create a new Cluster Profile of the type **Full**. Select an OS, and proceed to the Kubernetes selection step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create a new cluster profile of the type **Full**. Select an OS, and proceed to the Kubernetes selection step.
```
